README.md, before:

# NPP-corruption-detector

This program automatically recreates and detects an infamous save file corruption bug in the game [N++](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%2B%2B).

This program has been developed on Ubuntu 24.04, but it should work on most other Linux distributions.

## libTAS for N++ setup

1. Download the latest version of libTAS [here](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/clementgallet/libtas/build/artifacts), and install it
2. If you now open a new terminal and type `libTAS`, it should open. You can also open libTAS with Ubuntu's "Activity overview" by pressing the Windows key, and then typing `libTAS`.
3. At the top of the `libTAS` window is a field called `Game executable`. You'll fill this by pressing the `Browse` button to the right of it. Find the `N++.bin.x86_64` on your computer. In my case its path was `/home/<user>/snap/steam/common/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/N++/N++.bin.x86_64`, but it is also likely to be `/home/<user>/.steam/steam/steamapps/common/N++/N++.bin.x86_64`.

There are some libTAS settings that need to be changed for N++ to run.
At the top of the libTAS window is a `Settings` button. Click that, and then click `Runtime`.

4. Under the `General` header, check the `Virtual Steam client` box.
5. At the top of the Settings page is a submenu called `Audio`. Go there, and under the `Audio Control` header, check the `Disable` box. You can now close the settings menu.
6. Press the `Start` button, and N++ should open, but be paused. You can unpause it at any time by keeping the libTAS window next to it, and pressing the `Pause` checkbox that's found at the bottom-left corner of the screen.

In order to record a movie, you'll want to press the `Stop` button in libTAS (or close the game), and press the `Movie recording` checkbox that's found below the `Game executable` text. You can then toggle between the `Recording` and `Playback` options in it.

TIP:
If you want the game to run at a higher framerate, outside of libTAS go to N++ its Options menu, then Graphics Options, and set the resolution way lower, and turn Fullscreen off.
My PC needs to have the resolution all the way down to 1280x720 in order to run at a consistent 60 FPS.

## Replaying the recording in an infinite loop using libTAS

1. In this cloned/downloaded repository its directory, and open a new terminal in it (Ctrl+Alt+T on Ubuntu, and then use `cd` to navigate to the directory)
2. Make a backup of your `nprofile` save file, since you probably don't want to lose the progress you made in your personal game (you can list all `nprofile` files on your computer by running `find ~ -name nprofile | xargs ls -lh`)
3. Overwrite your personal `nprofile` file with the one in this repository
4. Change `NPROFILE_PATH` its value in the below command so it points to where your `nprofile` file is
5. Change `NPP_BIN_PATH` its value in the below command so it points to where your `N++.bin.x86_64` file is
6. Run the command

```bash
NPROFILE_PATH=~/.local/share/Metanet/N++/nprofile
NPP_BIN_PATH=~/snap/steam/common/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/N++/N++.bin.x86_64
while true; do
    cp $NPROFILE_PATH nprofile_previous

    libTAS --non-interactive --read ./N++.bin.x86_64.ltm $NPP_BIN_PATH

    cp $NPROFILE_PATH nprofile_current

    ./patch.py nprofile_previous nprofile_current || break

    xxd -R never nprofile_previous nprofile_previous.xxd
    xxd -R never nprofile_current nprofile_current.xxd
    diff nprofile_previous.xxd nprofile_current.xxd || break
done
```

Here is what running it roughly looks like:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/80b9f3c3-b5b9-40c9-af84-e429318a7081

## Credits

- The main developer of libTAS, Kilaye/[Clément Gallet](https://github.com/clementgallet), for fixing a bug in libTAS for me that prevented N++ from running
- The Discord member Eddy/eddymatagallos, for having created and giving me a file that documents what all of the save file's bytes stand for

Commit message:

Let the command write down how many runs have been performed

README.md, after:

# NPP-corruption-detector

This program automatically recreates and detects an infamous save file corruption bug in the game [N++](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%2B%2B).

This program has been developed on Ubuntu 24.04, but it should work on most other Linux distributions.

## libTAS for N++ setup

1. Download the latest version of libTAS [here](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/clementgallet/libtas/build/artifacts), and install it
2. If you now open a new terminal and type `libTAS`, it should open. You can also open libTAS with Ubuntu's "Activity overview" by pressing the Windows key, and then typing `libTAS`.
3. At the top of the `libTAS` window is a field called `Game executable`. You'll fill this by pressing the `Browse` button to the right of it. Find the `N++.bin.x86_64` on your computer. In my case its path was `/home/<user>/snap/steam/common/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/N++/N++.bin.x86_64`, but it is also likely to be `/home/<user>/.steam/steam/steamapps/common/N++/N++.bin.x86_64`.

There are some libTAS settings that need to be changed for N++ to run.
At the top of the libTAS window is a `Settings` button. Click that, and then click `Runtime`.

4. Under the `General` header, check the `Virtual Steam client` box.
5. At the top of the Settings page is a submenu called `Audio`. Go there, and under the `Audio Control` header, check the `Disable` box. You can now close the settings menu.
6. Press the `Start` button, and N++ should open, but be paused. You can unpause it at any time by keeping the libTAS window next to it, and pressing the `Pause` checkbox that's found at the bottom-left corner of the screen.

In order to record a movie, you'll want to press the `Stop` button in libTAS (or close the game), and press the `Movie recording` checkbox that's found below the `Game executable` text. You can then toggle between the `Recording` and `Playback` options in it.

TIP:
If you want the game to run at a higher framerate, outside of libTAS go to N++ its Options menu, then Graphics Options, and set the resolution way lower, and turn Fullscreen off.
My PC needs to have the resolution all the way down to 1280x720 in order to run at a consistent 60 FPS.

## Replaying the recording in an infinite loop using libTAS

1. In this cloned/downloaded repository its directory, and open a new terminal in it. Note that libTAS doesn't like VS Code's bash terminal, so open a new one with Ctrl+Alt+T on Ubuntu, and then use `cd` to navigate to the directory
2. Make a backup of your `nprofile` save file, since you probably don't want to lose the progress you made in your personal game (you can list all `nprofile` files on your computer by running `find ~ -name nprofile | xargs ls -lh`)
3. Overwrite your personal `nprofile` file with the one in this repository
4. Change `NPROFILE_PATH` its value in the below command so it points to where your `nprofile` file is
5. Change `NPP_BIN_PATH` its value in the below command so it points to where your `N++.bin.x86_64` file is
6. Run the command

```bash
NPROFILE_PATH=~/.local/share/Metanet/N++/nprofile
NPP_BIN_PATH=~/snap/steam/common/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/N++/N++.bin.x86_64
while true; do
    cp $NPROFILE_PATH nprofile_previous

    libTAS --non-interactive --read ./N++.bin.x86_64.ltm $NPP_BIN_PATH

    cp $NPROFILE_PATH nprofile_current

    expr `cat runs 2>/dev/null` + 1 > runs

    ./patch.py nprofile_previous nprofile_current || break

    xxd -R never nprofile_previous nprofile_previous.xxd
    xxd -R never nprofile_current nprofile_current.xxd
    diff nprofile_previous.xxd nprofile_current.xxd || break
done
```

You should see a `runs` file gets created by this command. It contains a number starting at 1, which gets incremented by 1 every time the command loops.

Here is what running it roughly looks like:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/80b9f3c3-b5b9-40c9-af84-e429318a7081

## Credits

- The main developer of libTAS, Kilaye/[Clément Gallet](https://github.com/clementgallet), for fixing a bug in libTAS for me that prevented N++ from running
- The Discord member Eddy/eddymatagallos, for having created and giving me a file that documents what all of the save file's bytes stand for
